Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends. Dear esteemed
Dharma friends, the Sutra of the Great Bodhisattva's Birth in Heaven, Observing the Causes and
Conditions of Birth, is a
very long sutra. As disciples of the
Buddha, we must understand the
merits, wisdom, and vows
of our Buddha.
This sutra speaks of the immense merits
distilled from the
Bodhisattva's virtuous conduct, so great that in his
final lifetime, to become a
fully enlightened being, he
chose the causes and conditions. This selection of causes and
conditions is not about the Bodhisattva being picky; it is
about choosing
those conditions that align with the karmic cycle of
birth in the Saha world
for a fully enlightened being. That
is, the merits of the Bodhisattva and the causes and conditions of
sentient beings. We must
understand that the causes and conditions in the
Saha world must include the appearance of a certain realm,
a certain father, a certain mother, for the
Buddha to be born. Therefore, sentient beings
cannot simply
wish for the Buddha's birth to happen.
It is
rare that such a karmic connection
could allow the Buddha to be born in the Saha world.
We hear the
dialogue between
Bodhisattva Hộ Minh and the Heavenly Prince Kim
Đoàn. In this dialogue,
we clearly see
that Bodhisattva Hộ Minh knew the answer but still
asked Kim
Đoàn why.
Here, we must see
the virtue
of the
Bodhisattva because when Kim Đoàn mentioned
this king in this country, Bodhisattva Hộ
Minh understood everything about that king, what he meant, and that he should
n't be born there.
Therefore, it is evident that he knew everything,
but he still asked Kim Đoàn to help Kim Đoàn achieve merit. Kim Đoàn
achieved merit by observing and offering.
We see that Bodhisattvas are without
desires; they have nothing for
themselves anymore.
They don't speak or act for themselves. They know everything;
only in that place could there be such a king and
such a queen, and they would be born into that
family, yet they still asked Heavenly Prince Kim
Đoàn.  It is for the benefit of the Golden Emperor's
assembly, not for the Bodhisattva of Protection. If we do
n't know, we should ask the Golden Emperor's assembly.
We see that His compassion is beyond our ordinary intellect.
He is very compassionate; even in small matters, he strives for the benefit of
sentient beings. This is truly
wonderful. In this article,
we must understand how to respect Him
and
examine ourselves,
our actions. Do we
wish to benefit
sentient beings, or do our actions cause suffering, and yet we
still intentionally do them? We know we
shouldn't do them, and we are reminded that we shouldn't.
Therefore, in
this article, our first focus of
contemplation is to contemplate
our own actions,
to abandon those actions that
do not bring benefit, enlightenment, or
blessings to those around us.
We must abandon those actions. Dear fellow practitioners, let's contemplate our
relationships with family, colleagues, and fellow practitioners, and
see which actions bring about the attainment of
blessings.  To achieve
enlightenment for everyone, we cultivate it, and
we practice abandoning behaviors that bring suffering to others. That's how
we learn
a lesson. The next point
in the
sutra is to
find out
in which country a fully enlightened being is born.
We must first understand that a country
where the king is tainted by wrong views cannot be the birthplace of a Buddha.
Secondly, a country where the king's family is of
low status lacks the
karmic conditions for a Buddha to be born. A country where the king's mother is impure and adulterous
cannot be the birthplace of a Bodhisattva. A country where the
people are stubborn, arrogant, conceited, self-important, and
live in chaos, without knowing the hierarchy, respecting elders and
juniors, considering
themselves intelligent and not needing to learn from
others, cannot have a Buddha
born there. A country where the
king lacks a suitable Dharma to guide the people.  The
model for a cruel and harsh ruling policy, one that
doesn't believe in karma,
is that even the Buddha wouldn't be born in a
country where the king is born into a family with
wrong views. That is, if the king himself
has wrong views, then the Buddha wouldn't be born there. And if the
king has parents with wrong views,
then the Buddha wouldn't be born there either.
Furthermore, if the king has
mixed-race children, this is a very profound point. The
king's mixed-race eldest son
was, in a previous life, the son of Brahma, the Dharma King. That is,
referring to the previous lives of the
king's children. That is, this king has
these children, but in their
previous lives, their children were mixed,
not of a single pure lineage. The
Bodhisattva cannot be born as the
son of that king, nor can he be a sibling
of those who
were mixed-race in their previous lives.
The mind-viewing of the complete contemplation explains
this point: for example, if this king
already has five children,
and now the Bodhisattva wants to be
born into that king's family, he will
become a sibling of...  These five children,
however, in
their previous lives, belonged to various mixed
families,
not belonging to a single
pure lineage. That is, in their
previous lives, they must have been pure and virtuous to be born as the
children of
that king. The king himself must have been pure in his
previous life, and his children must
also have been pure in their previous lives.
Not to mention, they must have been pure in their
previous lives as well, for
the Buddha to be born into that world. So
we see that it
is very difficult and rare for a Buddha to be born into this Saha world. It's
not possible for the current king and his children to be
pure, but if they weren't pure in their previous lives,
then it must be from a
previous life. Furthermore, if the king is
too old and weak and incapable of
governing the country and ensuring its
prosperity, then the Buddha would not be born
into that kingdom. The king's children might be of Brahmin
lineage, meaning
they are very
attached to their views.  The idea is
that they are unique and cannot be mixed with
other lineages. At that moment, if it were a
flash of insight, it wouldn't have been
possible. Here, we need to understand one
more thing:
countries like these don't
have the good fortune to have a Buddha
born there; they don't have the karmic affinity
to hear about the doctrine of karma. Do you
see? That's a characteristic of these
countries. That's why we see
countries that claim to be very equal, where
people have
human rights, very, very equal.
But equality must have hierarchy and
order. Equality that
disregards everyone, that excessive equality, that
equality to the point of protesting
to wear masks, is unacceptable. It's not
about living without loving
each other, isn't it? The whole country protesting without
masks, the people protesting
without masks – that's a lack of
love for each other. If
people truly love each other, they must practice it seriously
to prevent the spread of disease,
right? That's it.  A country that knows how to
love each other, so we must understand
that equality is important, but not
excessive equality. If people don't know how to love each other,
act arbitrarily without considering the common good, disregard
hierarchy and order, and live without morality, then it's
difficult for them to
grasp the doctrine of karma.
Let me make that clear here:
countries like this
cannot have a Buddha's birthplace. A
world full of countries like
this cannot have a Buddha's birthplace.
Therefore, a Buddha's birth is extremely rare,
extremely rare, and it
must appear in a country like this.
You all should just reread the scriptures,
but you have already chanted them. You
must know that the family of a
Bodhisattva who is destined to be reborn must have
60 merits. A family that wants to
have a Bodhisattva who is destined to be
reborn and become a Buddha must have 60 merits. Firstly,
this lineage must have been pure and virtuous from ancient times to the
present, and
this family must often be respected by the sages and saints.
My sincere support for you, esteemed friends, is evident. As you can see, when you
read the scriptures, you'll find 60
such conditions. We realize
how difficult it is for such
a
lineage, such a king and
queen, to exist in this world. It means they must be
born into a royal family, and the king and queen must come from a
lineage that has
ruled for generations. That means their lineage
is blessed with great fortune, lasting for a very long time.
The people are prosperous, wealth overflows, the
people live virtuously, the king loves the
people, the people are loyal and respectful to the king, and the
country is filled with love. Only then can a Buddha
be born. These 60 conditions are numerous, and the mother of this Bodhisattva must also possess these qualities: she must be born into a virtuous and upright family, she must have a perfect physical body, she must have perfect virtue, she must be born into a
noble family—there are so many, so many
conditions! But here,
this mother possesses many virtues,
intelligence, and wisdom, and there's one
more condition for a mother...  It's like
this: a mother like that has the potential to
receive the
final incarnation of a Bodhisattva before becoming a Buddha, just
like our Prince Siddhartha. For the
final incarnation, the
Queen must fulfill 32
conditions. And there's a
special thing: before the Queen
conceives the Bodhisattva, she must practice the Eight Precepts. Only then can the
Bodhisattva be born
into her womb. So we see that the
Eight Precepts are extremely important, dear fellow
practitioners. In
this practice, we've already discussed
the need for Buddhists to practice the Eight Precepts.
This time, wanting to be the
mother of a fully enlightened Buddha, she
must also diligently practice the Eight Precepts.
Of course, on the
path of Bodhisattva practice,
we have many incarnations, and this
can also be called a meritorious deed, dear fellow
practitioners. Therefore, the practice of
observing and upholding the
Eight Precepts with complete
devotion to the Bodhisattva is crucial.  Far from material possessions, far
from love, far from the pursuit of sensual pleasures, far from the pursuit of self-love and the love of
others, far from everything, in order to
achieve a mind that relinquishes the attachment to self-love and the love of others.
In the Eight Precepts, abandoning the pursuit of food, sleep, and rest is very important. The practice of the Bodhisattva path is crucial. The
Bodhisattva said, "
Today I have taken this body not for
money and worldly pleasures. I am
born into this world only out of
compassion for suffering beings and to bring
them peace and happiness." The assembly in heaven
all praised the Bodhisattva
as our revered Bodhisattva.
This story
is told when the Bodhisattva was
choosing a place to be born in the Saha world. Therefore, in
this practice, we have a contemplative aspect,
which is the contemplation of
our actions so that we can
abandon those actions that do not bring
benefit, enlightenment, or
increase merit for sentient beings. We abandon
those actions and do  Let us diligently practice
actions that lead sentient beings to
enlightenment, to practice generosity, and to
gain
merit. For example, making others
more respectful towards the Buddha
and the Sangha, encouraging sentient beings to diligently give
alms and offerings, and diligently perform
good deeds.
This will increase
our mental capacity. Furthermore, we
will learn from the Buddha to
abandon the
thoughts and actions of wanting to
enjoy things,
because the Buddha said, "Today, we are born into
this body not for money, pleasures, or
worldly desires." Sometimes we only
desire to have a lot of
money and worldly
pleasures, to travel to this place or that place, to
experience this food or
that food, to enjoy the five
desires. We will buy
high beds, good mattresses, beautiful clothes, and decorate ourselves
excessively. We should
abandon this way of enjoying ourselves. Instead, we should
only think about dressing like
this because of worldly matters, because of work,
because of our job.  That's because we must
adapt to circumstances in order to practice the Buddha's teachings.
We must adapt so that we can cultivate, so that we
have the conditions to diligently practice
Bodhi. Therefore,
we contemplate and reflect to abandon the desires for
sensual pleasures, the desire for money,
fame, and all those things. By
abandoning them, we can increase our progress. So, we must
adapt to practice the Buddha's teachings and propagate the Buddha
's Dharma.
And we contemplate so that
we can cultivate a respectful and grateful heart towards the
Buddha. He practiced the Bodhisattva path, sacrificing so
much blood,
flesh, and suffering in
this world
to bring happiness to us.
I wish you all
joy and success
in today's meditation session.
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni.
[Music]